1) Brief Introduction

Ahh, the familiar “Intro De”.

I’ll try to write this as frankly as possible and in the same spirit of honesty; I’ll also disclose that I’m also writing this in quite a hurry, aiming to finish this within the duration of a 2-hour flight, so please excuse me for grammar issues and anything else nonsensical.

I’m also unsure if I’m allowed to swear in SWG articles, so I’ll be creative here and there. Additionally, I will assume that the reader is familiar with the basic CDC profiles and their general requirements. If not, here they are:

Consulting — A beautiful CV and Case Prep
Finance — A strong CV, a tinge of CP and Prob-Stats
Analytics — CP, a wee bit of ML and Prob-Stats
Software/SDE — CP, CP and a bit more CP
Quant — CS, 9+ CG, Be annoyingly smart
I’ll start off, then, with the cookie-cutter KGP intro.

My name is Ram Sundaram. I’m a 3rd year (as of the time of writing this) undergraduate student of the Department of Biotechnology enrolled in its BTech course. I am a boarder of Vidyasagar Hall of Residence. I am from Bangalore, Karnataka.

With that done, some other stuff about me are that I’m currently the Head Finance at Business Club. I’m interested in a bunch of stuff like data analytics, finance, economics, and machine learning, but I haven’t really delved super deep into anything. I do quite like my core as well, but yeah, I ain’t pursuing that shoot because opportunities are severely limited, and a Master’s Degree is a minimum requirement, if not a PhD. I’m a lazy human being, so that’s not for me, for now, at least. I also did quite a bit of CP during my CDC prep and was actually focused on obtaining an analytics/SDE role, but as things would have it, I wouldn’t end up with any of the Day 1 Tech shortlists I wanted (probably due to a combination of my highly non-circuital department and my own underperformance in tests) and ended up in the most non-CP role possible with LEK Consulting, which I am nonetheless extremely grateful for.

2) How did you get into LEK? What was the selection procedure?

How did I get into LEK? Well, to be honest, I’m still searching for the answer myself right now. I’m still a bit gob smacked as to how it all happened. However, I’ll do my best to summarize it here.

So, it all started off with my CV. Unbeknownst to me, I had a strong “Consulting CV” and ended up with two out of three big consulting shortlists. I’ll elucidate the CV requirements in a later section.

I then got a call from a PlaceComm around a week before Day 1 informing me of the same. Usually, companies release shortlists a day or two before Day 1, but consulting companies like to be extremely early and take their pick of the best. In fact, they actually fight amongst each other in quite a comical fashion to get the first pick, with BCG and Bain having quite the dramatic selections last year, fighting over individual candidates. If anything, LEK lost out in this battle last year. BCG and Bain were able to select their desired candidates almost a week before Day 1, while LEK was left holding the bag and had to wait until Day 1. This year, I fully expect LEK not to fall into this trap again and select their guys and gals well beforehand.

Shortly after the shortlist call, I got an email from the LEK HR representatives themselves assigning me a “buddy”. All consulting companies use this buddy system. They assign you a buddy who’s a full-time junior employee (usually fresh out of college themselves). You can talk to your buddy, ask them any questions you have, and do case prep with them. Maintain a good rapport with your buddy, and they may put in a strong word for you with their management (who finally decide whether to select you or not). However, interactions with your buddy generally are very chill and relaxed. You don’t have to worry here. Your buddy is just here to help. My buddy was extremely helpful, did 2 or 3 cases with me over the phone, and helped me with all my questions about the interview procedure.

So, after this, we’re supposed to have “buddy rounds”, where we have a supposedly non-evaluative session with some of the more senior employees. Even though they say non-evaluative, believe me, these are very evaluative. They’re effectively the actual interviews themselves. Now, for me, there was some colossal duck-up, and LEK actually completely forgot about my existence during these Day 0 rounds (Day 0 is any interview procedure before Day 1) So, I wasn’t informed about these buddy rounds. So, I actually had a sped-up version of these buddy rounds on Day 1 itself. However, I’ve heard from my fellow interns at LEK and went through a similar experience with my Bain shortlist as well (they ultimately rejected me), so I can still tell you what happens here.

Now, you usually have 2–3 interview rounds. The first one is with a manager; if you make it to the second, it’s with a partner at the firm. You can’t get in without the partner approving you. Think of him/her as the final boss. The interviews themselves could involve anything. They usually have cases or guesstimates (I will explain these below), but it could even be an ordinary discussion regarding the most random shoot. Personally, here’s how my interview rounds went:

Round 1 — I was asked a simple guesstimate about India’s number of coaching centres. However, he threw me for a loop by only giving me specific pieces of data, and I had to perform the guesstimate, while he’d only give me three pieces of data that I had to request. It was quite a nice twist on a guesstimate. Also, as I alluded to earlier, it could even be a case or anything random. In mine, we literally talked about YouTube videos about airplanes (we both liked them) for quite a while. But yeah, my interviewer liked me and on I went to round 2.
Round 2 — This is the much-feared partner round. The partner interviewing me was incredibly sweet, though. I’m going on a tangent for a minute here. My partner round was around 6 pm on Day 1 when all the interviews are usually wrapped up. They actually had to call back the partner who had retired for the day and was having dinner because I was stuck interviewing (more like waiting for them to finally grant me an interview) with another firm (Nomura, that annoyance of a company). He ended up taking the entire interview with his 4-year-old sitting on his lap, which was freaking adorable and definitely helped calm my nerves down. So yeah, back to the substance of the blog. Again, they can discuss almost anything in interviews. A friend of mine just had a regular discussion about KGP life in her interview. In mine, he asked me a basic profit and loss case (I will explain case prep in a later section) and then talked about my qualifications and commitment to the firm.
Round 3 — Most interviewees didn’t have a Round 3. I did. It was just a basic HR round where they again asked about my commitment to the firm and then asked me to cite examples of leadership, which I did from my Business Club PoR. My interviewer then asked me to sell her a laptop to “show my sales skills”, which was a bit out of the ordinary. In general, this round was highly relaxed, and it felt like just a formality and that they had already decided to extend me an offer beforehand, which they eventually did at the culmination of the interview.
For me, this entire interview process happened on Day 1, but usually, they conduct these a week before and informally extend offers by then. Then they make you sit for an interview on Day 1 as a technicality because they aren’t supposed to give out offers beforehand. This is so they can nab the good candidates earlier and prevent them from sitting for any other company interviews.

In general, the above-listed buddy round and interview process is a shared interview procedure among all consulting firms.

3) How to prepare for them?

Now, the first and, honestly, the most crucial step is making a brilliant CV to even get that shortlist. Consulting shortlists are purely CV-based with no department biases (CG does matter, though, unfortunately). I’ll talk about the actual things that make an excellent consulting CV in a later section, but one thing I’ll emphasize here is that you need to put effort into getting that CV perfect, even if it means spending hours on end fixing minute formatting details on ERP’s god-awful CV platform. Imagine being stuck in never-ending traffic on your way to the mall while your movie started 10 minutes ago in the theatre. That’s how frustrating it feels to make CVs on ERP.

Now, onto post-shortlist preparation. Before that, let me just quickly explain what cases and guesstimates are. These are the most popular types of questions in consulting interviews. Guesstimates make you answer a strange question like “How many cigarettes are sold in a day in India?” and you have to walk the interviewer through your solution, segmenting things and coming up with a final answer. So, for example, in the above question, you could divide it into segments of the population that smoke, like college students, working professionals, etc. and break it down further to give a final number.

Cases are similar but are meant to emulate real-life consulting scenarios. Obviously, solving a real case takes months while you have a 20-minute interview, so they’re far simpler. There are different types of cases that you’ll learn about as you go through the prep materials, but they usually involve a vague question like “An electronics company has been facing losses recently. Figure out how to fix it.” You’ll then be expected to ask questions to the interviewer to find out more details about the company and drill down to the exact nature of the problem.

Again, if cases seem complicated, believe me, they are not, and you’ll understand quickly after looking at a few samples in the resources I’ll provide.

Anyhow, back to the shoot you were here for. While it’s advisable to learn the basics and understand how cases work beforehand, please do not spend a significant amount of time of your CDC prep on cases in the hope of a consult shortlist. Consult shortlists are few and far between and extremely variable. If you are even slightly inclined to any other role that could use some prep, I’d advise you to focus on that until you get a consult shortlist. Once you get the shortlist, however, it’s time to shift gears and chug cases!

I’ll first elucidate on the general strategy for preparing for consulting and then talk about my own personal preparation and the resources I used.

I’d divide consult prep into two broad steps:

Step 1: The Basics — Get familiar with the basics of cases and guesstimates and how to do them. Learn the different types of cases and the frameworks used to solve them. Figure out your own go-to strategy to solve cases and perfect it.
Step 2: Chug, Chug, Chug — While you may want to be chugging other substances after you get the shortlist, please wait till after the offer. Until then, chug cases. Get a group of friends (around 3–4 works best) and give each other cases, pretending to be each other’s interviewer. This replaces the monotony of solo cases with a lot of bkc, and overall, it makes case prep a fun experience, regardless of how frustrating it may sometimes seem.
Honestly, with enough dedication, case prep can be completed in a week or two. Hence, I advise only starting after a shortlist and doing something like CP or anything else in the meantime. Do Step 1 beforehand if you’re serious about consulting, but generally, wait until the shortlist to chug cases in Step 2.

Alright, on to actual concrete things you can start right now and resources you can look at. While there are many routes for prepping, here’s what I did:

Victor Cheng — Victor Cheng is the holy grail for starting out with case interviews. This was my first step when I had no clue what a case even looked like. I got an idea of cases and the nuances involved with them here. Do note that for internships, they usually limit it to profit/loss and market entry cases. There’s usually no need to delve into M&A and more complicated cases.
Example Cases — I found a Youtube channel where the guy did a lot of sample cases, and after watching a few, I started solving a few alongside him. I didn’t go through the entire playlist, just the relevant-looking cases. There are also numerous casebooks, which should serve as your Bible for the case prep week. The IIMA and IITB ones are personal favourites. Don’t go through all the cases, though. Save some to do cases with your batchies. You can find a bunch more resources, including additional casebooks, here.
Chug Time — I just got on a GMeet with my friends, and we gave each other cases. It starts off frustrating because you don’t know how to solve them. I nearly gave up at times. But as you familiarise yourself with the methodologies and frameworks, it becomes formulaic, and by the end, cases felt like second nature to me.
4) What are some of the major points you think would be valid to mention in your CV while targeting this profile?(any specific suggestions you would like to make?)

Alright, now for the most critical part of this blog, in my opinion. Your CV is everything for consulting. You’re in if you have the right CV. So, as I mentioned earlier, if you’re serious about this, put a lot of effort into making an undeniably brilliant CV. Now, in general, consulting companies look for a sort of all-round CV that needs a “spike” in every section. Also, there’s absolutely no department bias here; all are treated as equals. So, without any further ado, let’s look at the various CV sections and the possible “spikes”:

CGPA — Unfortunately, this does matter. In my time, people with a CG of 8.5+ were generally preferred by consulting firms, but obviously, the scenario is significantly different right now with the onset of the offline semester. Suffice it to say, CGs are ducked up and have, let’s say, changed vastly. Hence, the CG expectations will likely be lower this year or may even be done away with, albeit unlikely. Nonetheless, a high CG and/or a notable Department Rank would serve as a spike.
Internships — I literally only had ML interns (one research and one corporate), and so did a few people alongside me who are now in consulting. So, the nature of interns doesn’t seem to have to be consulting-relating as long as it showcases your analytical problem-solving skills. However, an intern (or any random project/opportunity you can feasibly call an internship) from a well-known company or a “brand intern” will push your CV to the top.
Competitions — A podium or being the finalist in any sort of competition helps, especially a business strategy-related competition such as a case study competition. This would most definitely serve as a spike.
Projects — I wouldn’t say they matter a lot, but a project under a famous institution would help. I personally only had self-projects in finance and analytics.
PoR — Almost everyone I know in consulting had some PoR. Society/Cell/Gymkhana/Hall PoRs or any other PoR are important and would serve as the spike in this section. However, there are exceptions to this, with people having gotten into consulting without a PoR, albeit rare.
Extracurriculars — I wouldn’t say this is too important but don’t skip this section in your CV, as they may indeed have a gander at it.
To summarise, try to have an all-round CV with spikes in different sections that make you stand out from the crowd. Also, spend a lot of time perfecting your CV to avoid correctable grammar and formatting errors.

5) What difficulties did you face while preparing for this Company/Profile? How did you overcome this problem?

The main problem I faced specifically with case prep was the frustration of being unable to solve cases. Initially, as with any new task, you will struggle, but seeing friends who had started prep earlier being able to solve cases quickly kinda sucked. It’s especially hard when you know your future hangs in the balance and depends on your ability to solve cases. In the end, I just put my head down, tried to solve as many as I could and eventually got the hang of it.

Apart from this, there was the standard CDC mental trauma. CDC is a ducked-up time for one’s mind, in my experience. You go to dark places, and all you really have to hang onto are your friends who are going through the same thing. But they’re all you need anyways.

6) According to you, who should ideally apply for this job?

In my opinion, unless you really detest consulting and don’t want to “risk” getting offered an esteemed consulting job, apply. There’s no harm in applying; if you get shortlisted, fantastic!

7) Any specific advice you want to give to the junta sitting for internships this year?

I think I’ll use this medium to address two of the main talking points of CDC.

First and foremost, as I mentioned earlier, your mind goes to dark places during this time. In KGP especially, there’s this extreme pressure to get your summer sorted, and that has messed-up ramifications. I recall stressing out over not getting shortlists and just launching into obscenity-filled tirades against certain companies (some still reserve a special place of abhorrence in my heart). I remember being the most nervous I was before my first interview with Bain and even ended up vomiting just a few minutes before the interview out of stress. I also screwed up the interview, so that just piled on the pressure. But at the end of the day, I had my closest friends going through the same thing as me, and the beautiful 5-year people were always there to help out, forcing me to consume some form of nutrition on Day 1 when I had no energy remaining to give another interview. The RR sessions helped a lot too, especially once we were back on campus (Day 0 interviews were online). To summarise, everyone goes through shoot during CDC; it’s perfectly normal. But, go through it together, please. Don’t keep it to yourself. Get together and launch into tirades about annoying companies, have RR sessions about PlaceComms and the process itself, and scream away your woes; it all helps. The important thing is reaching out. On that note, if anyone has reached this far into the article and is going through something and wants to reach out to me for any questions or anything in general, feel free to mail me at rams.dude@gmail.com (don’t ask for the backstory of the mail ID, please). I’ll get in touch asap and try to help as much as I can.

The last thing I wanted to address is the “To CP or Not To CP” question that crops up in everyone’s mind. I’ll try to keep my answer brief and lay down some facts beforehand. Generally, only a few Investment Bank roles (a lot like Goldman Sachs and JPMC still require a bit of CP in their tests), consulting roles, and the rare product roles don’t require some form of programming knowledge or CP. And this year, the scenario with hiring in a lot of IBs is still up in the air. So, not doing CP is a risk. However, if you absolutely detest technical roles and do not see yourself in any sort of SDE or Analytics role, then I’d say your time is best utilised elsewhere. However, if even a slight part of you doesn’t mind this kind of a role, CP is a vast safety net if the other options don’t work out. Also, always keep in mind that there’s a substantial off-campus world out there, too, even larger than the on-campus world, to be honest. It just needs a little searching (both LinkedIn and soul searching).

All the best, guys!