Brief Introduction

Hi Everyone ! I am Rishav Kumar, a third-year B.Tech student from the department of Electronics and Electrical Communication Engineering. I will be interning at Goldman Sachs as part of its Engineering Division in the summers of 2022.

How did you get into GS? What was the selection procedure?

The selection procedure consisted of an online round which was conducted on Hackerrank platform a few weeks before the interview. It consisted of 5 sections :

Section 1 (Easy Programming Round)

There were two questions, both implementation based. Questions were easy but the time limit was 30 minutes. Unfortunately, I took too much time in the first question due to minor bugs and was able to solve only one of them.

Section 2 (Quantitative Aptitude)

The questions in this section were tough (JEE level). The topics covered were Probability, Expectation Values, Trigonometry and logical reasoning. Since I didn’t prepare for the quant profile specifically, I was able to answer only one or two questions from this section.

Section 3 (CS Fundamentals)

This section consisted of theoretical questions from core CS subjects like Operating Systems, Computer Networks, Predicting output of a given code. I was able to solve around 30–40 % of the questions.

Section 4 (Hard Programming Round)

There was only one question with a time limit of 45 minutes. The question was arguably one of the hardest questions asked in CDC that year. It was based on profile DP (DP + Bitmasking). It took me around 30 minutes to code the solution and 5 minutes to debug. As I had solved a similar question before, I knew straight away how the general structure of the solution would look like. I was able to pass all the test cases.

Section 5 (Behavioral/HR essay-type question)

The questions were :

What will you do if your teammate leaves you in the middle of the project due to some personal issues ?

Mention a situation where your passion and enthusiasm helped you in achieving the goal.

Time limit was 15 minutes. The exact same questions were asked in previous year’s round. I was prepared with a suitable answer for each of these questions.

There was another criterion for selection which was CGPA. Performing well in any one of the subsections (Coding / Quant) was enough to be called for an interview. Around 80 people were shortlisted for the interviews.

Round 1

The round started off with a basic implementation question.The interviewer just wanted to see if I could convert my thoughts into code. He then asked me a puzzle. I was told that I could solve the problem either logically or by writing code. After a few minutes of brainstorming I wrote a recursive code and arrived at the final answer.

Round 2

I wasn’t required to code in this round. The interviewer just asked me theoretical questions on various well-known algorithms like Dijkstra, Manhattan, CPU Scheduling, etc. I was also asked a bit about my projects.

Round 3

The round consisted of a medium-hard level question. It was based on DP on a binary tree. It took me a while to code up the solution. Initially the interviewer wasn’t able to understand my solution as I had optimized the space complexity to O(1) but after a few minutes of discussion he was satisfied. He then asked me about my project with a few follow-up questions.

There was no HR round. I received the confirmation about two hours later that I have been selected.

How to prepare for them?

I initially came to know about Competitive Programming from some of my friends during the start of my 2nd semester. I started with beginner level problems on Codechef and Hackerrank. Soon I realized the importance of Data Structures and Algorithms in CP and decided to learn it thoroughly.

Initially I followed the videos of mycodeschool youtube channel and then moved to cp-algorithms website. Meanwhile I kept solving questions and participated in as many contests as I could.

After reaching the fourth semester I realized that my ratings were stable and I couldn’t improve them even after upsolving the questions. It was at this time that I decided to join the AZ-201 course of AlgoZenith. The course covered everything from scratch. The questions on the platform were quite relevant from the CDC point of view. Meanwhile, I also took the Algorithms-I and Algorithms-I Lab courses as additionals. All these resources were enough to provide me with a firm grasp on DSA skills.

In the summer break before CDC I moved on to platforms like InterviewBit and LeetCode to prepare for interview rounds. I solved interviewBit completely and did around 150 most liked questions on LeetCode. I also worked on two small projects (one on NLP and the other on Blockchain) and implemented them from scratch.

What difficulties did you face while preparing for this Company/Profile? How did you overcome this problem?

One of the biggest setbacks that I faced during my preparation was not being able to push my ratings above a certain limit (5-star on CodeChef and Expert on Codeforces). However I soon realized that the questions on these platforms were more towards the ad-hoc side rather than DSA. Consequently, I shifted to other platforms like LeetCode and focused more on improving my DSA skills rather than worrying about my ratings.

According to you, who should ideally apply for this job?

People who have a keen interest in the Software Development domain with a slight interest in Finance should ideally apply for this internship program.

Any specific advice you want to give to the junta sitting for internships this year.

Practice Competitive Programming. There’s no shortcut to that at all. CP won’t just help you in grabbing an internship/placement offer, but also helps to improve problem-solving skills, builds aptitude and spontaneous thinking.

Ask questions to the interviewer. At times they make the question unclear purposefully hoping that you may ask for clarifications.

Think out loud during the interview, so that the interviewer knows your thought process and may guide you towards the solution.

Don’t panic. Keep a smile on your face and a calm head.

Don’t worry too much about ratings, focus on learning.

Don’t get demotivated after seeing your friends get an offer in a Day1 company. Some of the companies that come later are equally good as Day1 companies.

What are some of the major points you think would be valid to mention in your CV while targeting this profile?(any specific suggestions you would like to make?)

Having a project on your CV really gives you an edge over others. Not only does it help you to understand software development but also becomes a major point of discussion during your interviews. Having good ranks in coding competitions like Google Kickstart, Google CodeJam, ICPC also adds value to your resume.

Lastly, be thorough with your resume. Don’t write anything on your CV which you won’t be able to explain.

Remember, it’s okay not to get a good offer initially as you will get lots of opportunities in the future. Just try giving your best. Feel free to ping me on Facebook/LinkedIn for any questions :)

All the best.