Microsoft Intern Foresight
1)Brief introduction and description of offered role
Hello everyone, I am Ayushi, a pre-final year undergrad at IIT Kharagpur enrolled in its B. Tech course of Instrumentation Engineering. I am a boarder of Mother Teresa Hall of Residence and I shall be joining Microsoft India as a Software Engineering Intern this summer.
2) How did you get into Microsoft? What was the selection procedure?
I got into Microsoft through the Career Development Centre, IIT Kharagpur. The process consisted of an online assessment (in mid-July) and two rounds of interviews (on Day 1) -
a. Online Assessment -
The online assessment was held on Codility and was about an hour long. It consisted of two coding questions of medium-hard difficulty. From what I remember, the first question was to find out the longest symmetric substring from a string of (<,>,?) and the second question required us to use Union-Find. One needed to solve both the coding questions correctly to get through.
b. Technical Round -
Well, this was quite an experience as we were allotted our panels at around 4:30 in the morning. So do keep your sleep schedule flexible to help in times like these. The interviews were held online at Nalanda. In my interview, I was asked the standard ‘Trapping Rain Water’ problem. Initially, I had to give the brute force approach and then optimize it to satisfy the time constraints provided by the interviewer. The key here was to consistently communicate with your interviewer and keep them informed of your thinking process. They can be quite friendly and can help you find the way out if you are stuck somewhere.
c. Technical+HR round -
Soon, after my first interview ended, I got a call for my next interview. The process was similar here. I was asked a question on trees and I was required to present my solution, starting with the brute force approach and ultimately arriving at the most optimized version. For the HR part, the interviewer asked me to briefly describe the project that I found most intriguing. The interview lasted for approximately 45 minutes.
3) How to prepare for them?
For the coding round, I would suggest starting with DSA as early as possible. Practice problems from Leetcode, Codeforces, GeeksforGeeks, etc or whatever platform you are comfortable with and can keep InterviewBit for the last 1–2 months as it consists of just the right set of questions one requires before the assessments. Participate in CF contests regularly and make it a point to upsolve the questions otherwise it won’t help. (Also you can participate in the contests held by Grimoire of Code as they consist of some quality questions)
For the interview round, one must be thorough with your CV as the interviewer might ask questions about any point they find interesting. You must remain calm and composed throughout the entire process. Even if you are stuck somewhere, there is no need to panic. Communicating with the interviewer can be very helpful in ultimately finding your way to the final answer.
4) When did you start preparing for this role and according to you what is the ideal time for aspirants to begin their preparation?
If anyone is aiming for a technical role in CDC, having a thorough knowledge of DSA is essential. I started learning DSA in my second year. To be honest, balancing DSA with your acads is challenging, and there were times when I had to focus solely on academics. However, if you manage your time effectively and are able to learn even one concept in a week, even that is sufficient. Taking small steps is what truly matters.
5) What difficulties did you face while preparing for this Company/Profile? How did you overcome them?
The major issue I faced during my preparation was finding a clear roadmap with all the necessary resources in one place. There are a plethora of resources available online but choosing from them efficiently is a big task. Talking to seniors who prepared for the same profile last year is the best thing one can do in such situations. Moreover, It was tough to stay motivated and follow the same routine consistently for three months but having a group of friends to discuss doubts and share daily progress made the preparation journey much easier.
6) Are there any specific requirements such as department, CGPA, or other criteria for this position? Additionally, do certain PORs or EAAs enhance one’s chances of securing this internship?
For an SDE role, positions of responsibility (PORs) don’t really matter, though they do enhance your CV overall. However, for CDC internships, a higher CGPA can significantly improve your chances of being shortlisted, in addition to your programming skills. Some companies even have a CGPA cutoff in their online assessments, so having a higher CGPA is always advantageous.
7) According to you, who should ideally apply for this job?
Anyone who loves problem-solving, enjoys coding and is interested in development can apply for this internship role.
8) Kindly attach your CV/Resume. What are some of the major points you think would be valid to mention in CV while targeting this profile?
Including good projects or previous internships in your CV can always be the starting point of discussion with your interviewer. They might simply ask you to skim through one of your projects. Present your work well in your CV and make sure to bolden the key aspects. Be confident in whatever you mention as not being able to explain your own project details can create a really bad impression on the interviewer. For software roles, listing your contest ratings can also be a distinguishing factor.
9) Lastly, what advice would you like to give to the students aiming to grab CDC internships this year?
My main piece of advice would be to make use of these three months wisely. It is all about time management and putting in your efforts consistently. Don’t hesitate to contact your seniors who have gone through the same process last year. They might be the best ones to guide you both on the professional and the personal front. The intern season is both hectic and confusing and might lead you to question your own abilities at times. But remember that if you have put in your time and efforts dedicatedly in the process, it is definitely going to pay off in the end. So just focus on giving your best every time. All the best!!

