Brief Introduction:
Hi, I am Shyamvanshikumar Singh, a final year undergraduate student in Electronics and Electrical Communication. I completed my 8-week long summer internship at Microsoft. I was part of the Professional Services (Microsoft Digital) Team which is part of Microsoft’s Core services engineering and operations group.
Selection Procedure:
The selection process involved one coding round followed by 3 interview rounds. Before last year Microsoft used to conduct 2 coding contests before shortlisting for interviews, but last year they conducted only one and used CPGA for shortlisting.
The coding round for most companies is conducted on the Hackerrank platform, but for Microsoft, it is usually conducted on the Mettl platform which many don’t find friendly. Just be a bit more cautious and calm while giving the test if you are not familiar with the platform. The round consisted of 3 questions which were the same for all students. The questions were easy and were from topics like dynamic programming, greedy algorithm and one was a simple brute force problem.
The first two interview rounds were again coding based where one question was asked in each round. The first round included designing a sorting algorithm without using comparison operators while the second round included a DP-based question. During the interview, it is very important that while thinking about the solution of the problem you think out loud. As in my case, it helped me to get some guidance from the interviewer for getting to the correct solution. The final round was mostly based on topics mentioned in my CV and some problem-solving. The whole interview experience was pretty chill.
How to prepare for them:
For software engineering-based profiles a good knowledge of Algorithm and Data Structures is essential. You can take the Algorithms I course of the CSE department or can do an online course on DSA. Once the basics of DSA are clear, there are many sources to practice problem-solving. GeeksforGeeks, Leetcode, InterviewBits, A2OJ ladder, etc. I would suggest selecting any two of the available resources, instead of jumping between different platforms. Apart from these, you can participate in competitive programming contests on code forces and CodeChef to get an idea of your progress.
My internship project details:
My project was involved a Machine learning-based multi-class classification problem. It involved creating different machine learning models, creating Restful APIs, and some work involving Microsoft Azure. The project was mostly coded in C#. Most of the technologies used in the project can be learned during the internship itself and there are no prerequisites.
Internship experience:
The internship experience was really good. People are always present there to help you out in any difficulty you face, whether related to the project. Many fun and informative events were conducted throughout the internship period. The project work was also very interesting, and the project timeline was pretty lenient. The only thing lacking during the period was interaction with fellow interns due to the online work mode.
What effect could Covid have in the upcoming internship process?
Now, mostly all of us have become accustomed to the online mode of learning and working. Last year also the entire process was online and went pretty smooth. During the whole process in an online manner, we become lonely and try to be in touch with all batch mates and seniors. Talking with people will reduce all the anxiety related to the process. Be confident and hope for the best.
Who should apply for this internship?
All the technology enthusiasts and coding geeks can apply for this opportunity. There is a lot of scope for learning new technologies and skills during the internship period.
Advice for them:
My advice for you all is to be confident and believe in yourself. Be firm on your fundamentals. The internship process itself will be a learning experience. There will be days when things won’t go your way. Try to learn from them. Don’t get demotivated when you don’t get a shot in some of the companies. Again have belief in yourself, and you will find a company matching your skill sets.

