Brief Introduction:
My name is Ritwika Chowdhury. I did my Software Engineering Internship at Texas Instruments during the summers of 2018.

Selection Procedure:
It starts with an Online test consisting of MCQ questions. For the Software profile, the test had questions from Algorithms, Data Structures, C, Embedded system and a separate section for Aptitude.

However for the other three profiles — Analog, Digital, Digital Signal Processing they had MCQ questions from the respective domains.

After clearing the Online round, there are usually 2–3 rounds of personal interviews. I had 2 rounds of interviews. The Questions asked for the interview round were majorly from Data Structures and Algorithms. Other than that there were questions on Embedded Processors and Computer Memory(basic questions).

He asked about timers, interrupts and some of the fundamental questions from Embedded System.

During the first round of interview, each of the students was given one hour to solve one coding question mentioning each step in detail. ( It was not like a regular question you would find on any coding platform.) That was done majorly to check the approach that the student has taken and also his/her grasp of coding.

In the second round of the interview, I was also asked to write a small code in embedded C.

How to prepare for them:
Good knowledge of Algorithms and especially Data Structures is required. I would suggest studying from geeksforgeeks. Simultaneously one should practise from Interviewbit or similar coding platforms. A revision of the fundamentals of embedded processor is advised. However, the most important thing is to know each and every detail one has mentioned in his/her CV.

Your Project Details:
Bandwidth optimized Lens Distortion Correction Module.

Company Culture:
The people at TI are really friendly and helpful. Emphasis is laid on teamwork. The employees mostly get to work on the end to end development of a product there. No restrictions on timings. There is a hub for extra-curricular activities called Texin. It has courts for badminton, volleyball, tennis, cricket etc. It also has gym, dance, music and yoga rooms and a lot more. Overall experience was really good.

According to you who should ideally apply for the intern:
People who really like coding should apply for it.

And what advice will you give to them:
Do not target one specific company, instead target a profile which you like and prepare for it. You may have a dream company but a lot of factors play a role during the selection procedure. Prepare well but remember it is not the end of the world.