Brief Introduction:-

I am G V Sai Harshit, enrolled in the dual degree course of Aerospace Engineering. I am a boarder of Lal Bahadur Shastri Hall of Residence. I got the placement offer from Bajaj Auto during the current placement season as a Post Graduate Trainee Engineer.

How did you get into Bajaj auto? What was the selection procedure?

Despite being from Aerospace, most of my projects had an overlap with Mechanical subjects, and hence before the placement season started I decided to apply to core mechanical roles. As a backup, I was also preparing for business analyst roles.

Regarding the selection process, most of the core companies in Mechanical have a screening test — Aptitude followed by Core Subject Questions. 30 min after the first written round, qualified students were sent another link to take the Psychometric Assessment. There are no wrong or right answers in this section and I believe only the consistency of answers will be checked.

In the interview, I was expecting technical questions related to vehicles and was not so confident as I had no experience. But luckily the interview was mostly based on my CV. Every small detail about the project was asked and I had to explain it to them in detail. They first asked me to describe my favorite project and its relevance in the current industry. Later minor details about all the projects were asked. They basically wanted to know how well I understood the projects and whether I have done the project myself.

The next round of interviews was the HR round, which lasted for roughly 5 minutes where they just asked for basic details and they wanted to know why I am not preferring higher studies despite having a good CGPA.

How to prepare for them?

The syllabus of the written test is the same as the syllabus for GATE Mechanical, but the focus will be more on 5 topics namely — Thermodynamics, Strength Of Materials, Machine Design, Fluid Dynamics, and IC Engines. These 5 topics would be enough to crack the exam. Some Aptitude questions were also asked and students are expected to be well-versed in aptitude as almost all job profiles test this aspect.

For the interview, just be very well-versed with your CV and don’t mention anything that you can’t justify. Prepare a good introduction and also be ready with questions that you will ask the interviewer after the interview. Both the introduction and the conclusion are essential as they paint a good impression. Be confident in your answers and everything will be fine.

What difficulties did you face while preparing for this Company/Profile? How did you overcome this problem?

Being from Aerospace, I didn’t have the knowledge regarding some Mechanical Gate concepts and I spent most of the Dusshera Holidays reading these topics and writing practice tests. Some of the questions will be direct formula based and one has to remember a lot of formulas and equations. Apart from that, I had doubts and fear regarding the placements but I was lucky to have good friends and family who constantly believed in me and motivated me to stay confident.

According to you, who should ideally apply for this job?

Anyone interested in the profile and having a profile something close to the job profile can apply. For Bajaj Auto, there is no need to have any prior knowledge about the working of a motor vehicle as was the case with me. I am not sure about the CGPA factor, but having a good CGPA definitely helps in core profiles.

Any specific advice you want to give to the junta sitting for placements this year?

It’s never too late to get started as I myself started preparing for the placements during the DP Holidays. Just put in the required effort and be confident in your abilities and skills. Don’t be scared about the interview as you are not expected to know everything. And most importantly keep in touch with close friends and family, who will help you stay focused.