1) Brief Introduction

Hello everyone! I am Aryan Gupta, a third-year undergraduate in the Department of Chemical Engineering enrolled in its BTech course. I am glad to be able to help out fellow KGPians with what I have learned in the process .whilst securing an SDE intern at Amazon via the CDC procedure.

2) How did you get into Amazon? What was the selection procedure?

I would like to briefly outline my journey throughout the second year and how it has contributed. My interest in computer science topics led me to take various application-level courses in CSE and related departments. This gave me course projects with hands-on experience in core software projects. I had some exposure to web dev and data science via the general championship competitions. All these experiences helped me develop a solid background.

As far as the selection process goes, it included a coding round and an interview for me. The coding round had three questions ranging from medium to hard. The interviews involved a discussion about my projects, followed by coding questions to be approached in a step by manner by improving the solution gradually.

3) How to prepare for them?

I will not undermine the DSA preparation that remains omnipresent in the process. I had some early exposure to C++. Nevertheless, I prepared the usual set of topics, used GFG and YT as my helping hand, and gave contests to prepare myself for the time-constrained setup. Also, it is very important to practice from Leetcode and InterviewBit for the standard questions.

Thanks to our seniors who have compiled a detailed resource manual for preparation (Link)

4) What difficulties did you face while preparing for this Company/Profile? How did you overcome this problem?

The main problem that needs to be cleared for people preparing for CDC is regarding a roadmap/guide to conquer X. Rather; one needs to understand the importance of sticking to a plan but be adaptive in the process according to the situation. You can chalk out your plan and take guidance from seniors or take a course if it helps, but you need to be consistent.

5) According to you, who should ideally apply for this job?

This role is meant for problem solvers, and that is what gets tested in the entire process. It can be that one is a good problem solver but doesn’t want to adopt the coding route, which is perfectly fine.

6) Any specific advice you want to give to the junta sitting for internships this year?

As a last piece of advice, remember that you will always find a way to excel if you strive to. So never get disheartened if your efforts do not yield results in CDC; the process isn’t robust enough to judge your true potential. But use it as a reminder for the countdown to start thinking about what direction you want to proceed in your life and out of college.